SOURCE: BEEM063_Main_Presentation_Brief_2026
PAGES: 1

=== PAGE 1 ===
beem063 Hackathon Main Presentation Brief 2026 
 
You will work together in your groups to prepare a video that you will submit by Friday 14th 
August (10 weeks after the proposal video submission). This will be graded as a group, 
counting 10% to your grade on the module.  
 
Your objective is to present a 5 minute video summarising your FinTech business that you 
build during the summer.  
 
You should treat this as an opportunity to demonstrate your product, as if it were a pitch to a 
potential investor. Your presentation should be balanced between explaining any technical 
contributions, alongside what the product actually does and how it is of real value. You will also 
need to be clear about what stage you have reached compared to any longer business plan time 
horizon. When you submit your group document, it should include links to the video, and any 
other relevant links to your prototype product.  
 
 
 
1. Potential Real Value of FinTech Product  
 
Your mission as a group is to work in your teams on creating a real FinTech product. This is likely 
to be in the form of a prototype, as opposed to something real working in a real market place. 
You may of course find it helpful to have something working for real (eg hosted on a real server) 
for your career, but this is not expected. The main criterion you are judged on is its potential 
real value, which should be explained. In order for this to be understood, you will inevitably 
need to describe what the product is, what it seeks to solve, and why you believe it has 
potential to succeed. Depending on how it goes, this could just be an update of what you laid 
out in your proposal video.  
 
 
2. Presentation  
 
Remember to make the most of your different skills in the group. The aim of this presentation is 
to show what you have created, and sell it to a potential investor. It is up to you as a group how 
best to achieve this, you may all be involved, or even just one of you, depending on what you 
think will work best as a pitch. These criteria will be used to judge your submissions according to 
the following weightings:  
 
 
Potential Real Value of FinTech Product(s)  70% 
Presentation  30% 
Organisation  10% 
Effective use of Presentation Aids  10% 
Language Proficiency and Presentation Style  10%
