c

Resolution 600a

RESOLUTION 600a*
AIR WAYBILL
CBPP(12)600a*

Expiry: Indefinite

8. Air waybill completion examples in the Air Waybill Handbook (Attachment ‘B’, Appendix ‘C’), published separately
shall be developed by the Secretariat in accordance with
the procedures in Attachment ‘B’ hereto and current tariff
rules.

Type: B
CBPP(13)600a

Expiry: Indefinite
Type: B

CSC(19)600a*

Expiry: Indefinite
Type: B

CSC(26)600a*

Expiry: Indefinite
Type: B

RESOLVED that:
1. For international transportation of cargo, IATA Members
shall use the air waybill as set forth in Attachments ‘A’ and ‘B’.
1. For international transportation of cargo, IATA
Members shall use an air waybill as set forth in
Attachments ‘A’ and ‘B’ or a shipment record as defined
in Resolution 600f.
2. The air waybill is a document which shall be either an air
waybill referred to as an “airline air waybill”, with preprinted
issuing carrier identification, or an air waybill referred to as
a “neutral air waybill” without preprinted identification of the
issuing carrier in any form and used by other than an air
carrier.
3. The issuing carrier is either:
3.1 in the case of an “airline air waybill”, the carrier whose
form is used; or
3.2 in the case of a “neutral air waybill”, either:
3.2.1 the first carrier, or
3.2.2 an intended participating carrier in the routing, or
3.2.3 a carrier acting as the handling agent or sales agent
for the first carrier at origin.
4. In a non-CASS environment, neutral air waybills shall
not be used except when completed by a computer system.
5. Proposals to amend the air waybill may be submitted
to the Secretary, Cargo Services Conference at any time.
Such proposals shall be circulated to all members of the
Cargo Business Processes Panel for consideration and
agreement.
6. If agreed, such proposals shall be circulated to all
Members by Notice of Amendment in accordance with the
procedures detailed in Resolution 601.
7. Amendments agreed to Attachment ‘A’ need not be put
into effect until the time of next printing of the air waybill
but in no event later than 18 months after the declaration
of effectiveness of these amendments.

* This Resolution is in the hands of all IATA Cargo Agents.

23

c

Cargo Services Conference Resolutions Manual
3.6 additional copies, having the same layout, wording
and shading as Appendix ‘E’, may be included in the airline
air waybill set to a maximum of five copies. These must be
printed on white paper marked “Copy XX (Extra copy for
Carrier)”, where XX denotes the number of the copy of the
airline air waybill, and may be placed anywhere in the airline
air waybill set following Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier);

RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’
AIR WAYBILL — TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS
1.

INTRODUCTION

1.1 The air waybill is a document which shall be either an
air waybill referred to as an “airline air waybill”, with
preprinted issuing carrier identification, or an air waybill
referred to as a “neutral air waybill” without preprinted identification of the issuing carrier in any form and used by other
than an air carrier.

2. MEASUREMENTS OF THE AIR
WAYBILL
The outside measurements of the air waybill shall be
between 208 mm (8.2 in) and 230 mm (9 in) in width and
between 274 mm (10.8 in) and 305 mm (12 in) in length.
The size of the boxes and their distances from the upper
left hand paper edges shall be maintained exactly as shown
in Appendix ‘A’.

3. DESCRIPTION OF THE AIRLINE
AIR WAYBILL SET
The airline air waybill set shall be printed as specified below:
3.1 the Original 3 (for Shipper) shall have the same layout,
wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘B’;
3.2 the Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt) shall have the same
layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘C’;
3.3 the Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier) and Original 2 (for
Consignee) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘D’;
3.4 all other copies shall have the same layout, wording
and shading as specified in Appendix ‘E’;

J 3.5 the airline air waybill shall be in a set of a minimum
of eight copies and shall be marked in the order shown.
Colour is optional and airlines shall accept both coloured
and non-coloured coded air waybills.
Title

Colour

Original 3 (for Shipper)
Copy 8 (for Agent)
Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier)
Original 2 (for Consignee)
Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)
Copy 5 (Extra Copy)
Copy 6 (Extra Copy)
Copy 7 (Extra Copy)

Blue
White
Green
Pink
Yellow
White
White
White

If using colour, copies shall be either coloured paper or
white paper with appropriate colour ink imprinted thereon,
as referred above;

24

3.7 notwithstanding the provisions of 3.5 and 3.6, when
an air carrier uses an automated system to issue the airline
air waybill:
3.7.1 the airline air waybill shall be executed in a set which
includes at least the three original copies,
3.7.2 further copies of the airline air waybill may be
produced by automated means at origin, en route or at
destination as required,
3.7.3 upon interline transfer, at least five copies, of which
one copy is entitled “Original 2 (for Consignee)” and one
copy is entitled “Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)”, shall be
provided to the onward carrier,
3.7.3 upon interline transfer,
3.7.3.1 when the exchange of a shipment record is not
possible, at least five copies, of which one copy is entitled
“Original 2 (for Consignee)” and one copy is entitled
“Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)”, shall be provided to the
onward carrier,
3.7.3.2 when the exchange of a shipment record is
possible, it is not required that copies of an air waybill
be provided to the onward carrier. However the carriers
involved must agree to adhere to the provisions of
Resolution 600f,

4. DESCRIPTION OF THE NEUTRAL
AIR WAYBILL SET
The neutral air waybill set shall be printed as specified
below:
4.1 the Original 3 (for Shipper) shall have the same layout,
wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘B’;
4.2 the Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt) shall have the same
layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘C’;
4.3 the Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier) and Original 2 (for
Consignee) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘D’;
4.4 all other copies shall have the same layout, wording
and shading as specified in Appendix ‘E’;

J 4.5 the neutral air waybill shall be either in a set of a
minimum of eight copies in the order and marked as shown
in 4.5.1; or in two sets of a minimum of four copies each in
the order and marked as shown in 4.5.2. Colour is optional
and airlines shall accept both coloured and non-coloured
coded air waybills. If using colour, copies shall be either
coloured paper or white paper with appropriate colour ink
imprinted thereon, as referred to below;

c

Resolution 600a — Attachment ‘A’

4.5.1 one set of eight copies:
Title

Colour

Original 3 (for Shipper)
Copy 8 (for Agent)
Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier)
Original 2 (for Consignee)
Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)
Copy 5 (Extra Copy)
Copy 6 (Extra Copy)
Copy 7 (Extra Copy)

Blue
White
Green
Pink
Yellow
White
White
White

4.5.2 two sets of four copies each:

5.1.6 in the Shipper’s Certification box, the part of the
statement referring to the Dangerous Goods Regulations
from the word “insofar …” shall be printed in bold type.
5.2 In addition to the information illustrated in Appendices ‘B’ – ‘E’, the following features may also be shown at
carrier’s option:
5.2.1 a space may be inserted in the serial number of the
airline air waybill between the fourth and fifth digits;
5.2.2 carrier’s insignia may be printed in the issuing
carrier’s name and address box;
5.2.3 the notice containing reference to the carrier’s Conditions of Contract may be printed on all copies which are not
originals except Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt);

First set
Title

Colour

Original 3 (for Shipper)
Copy 8 (for Agent)
Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier)
Copy 7 (Extra Copy)

Blue
White
Green
White

Second set
Title

Colour

Original 2 (for Consignee)
Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)
Copy 5 (Extra Copy)
Copy 6 (Extra Copy)

Pink
Yellow
White
White

J 4.6 paper and carbon, where used, shall be of such quality
that all copies are clearly legible;
4.7 fastening or stub shall:
4.7.1 hold the neutral air waybill set together so that it does
not disintegrate into loose sheets of paper during normal
handling, and
4.7.2 be precut and of such nature that copies can be
pulled easily and that when a part is pulled, the page does
not tear apart.

5. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACE OF
THE AIRLINE AIR WAYBILL
5.1 In addition to the information as illustrated in
Appendices ‘B’ – ‘E’:
5.1.1 the air waybill number shall be placed in the upper
left corner, in the upper right corner and in the lower right
corner of all copies of the airline air waybill as shown in
Appendix ‘A’;
5.1.2 the air waybill number shall consist of the issuing
carrier’s three-digit IATA airline code number and a serial
number of eight digits including a check digit placed in the
extreme right hand position;
5.1.3 the check digit shall be determined by using the
unweighted Modulus 7 system;

5.2.4 the space in the box below the reference to the
carrier’s Conditions of Contract, may be used to print other
related statements as may be necessary to conform to
national requirements;
5.2.5 “Requested Flight/Date” box may be without title;
5.2.6 the words “Also Notify” may be printed after the title
of the “Accounting Information” box (applicable for domestic
transportation only);
5.2.7 the “Amount of Insurance” box and adjacent “Insurance” clause box may be shaded and without title or printing
of clause;
5.2.8 a box titled “TC” (for Transaction Correction), the
size of which is limited to two characters and located to the
right of the “Insurance” clause box, may be provided;
5.2.9 “Handling Information” box may include the printing
of not more than five subtitles. A box titled “SCI” (for Special
Customs Information), with dimensions of 8 mm × 30 mm
(0.3149 in × 1.1811 in), is to be inserted in the bottom right
corner of this box (insertion of this box is mandatory);
5.2.10 when the air waybill is issued in the United States,
the statement “These commodities, technology or software
were exported from the United States in accordance with
the Export Administration Regulations. Diversion contrary
to USA law prohibited” may be printed in the “Handling
Information” box;
5.2.11 the description of the charges/fees frequently
incurred may be printed in the first two lines of the “Other
Charges” box;
5.2.12 “Tax” boxes may be shaded and without title;
5.2.13 any special services provided may be printed in the
shaded boxes below the “Total Other Charges Due Carrier”
boxes;
5.2.14 language(s) or an annotation may be printed at the
bottom of the air waybill indicating that the wording of the
form is available in another language and where it may be
obtained;

5.1.4 the serial number shall be of the same size, similar J 5.2.15 bar coded air waybill numbers, if used, shall be
style of type (font) and of the same boldness as the airline
printed in accordance with Recommended Practice 1600t
code number;
and shall be shown in at least one of the locations illustrated
in Appendix ‘F’. Note: For air waybills produced on U.S.
5.1.5 a separating hyphen placed between the airline code
Letter Size paper, the lower right corner cannot apply due
number and the serial number shall be used for the number
to space limitation;
shown in the upper right corner and in the lower right corner;

25

c

Cargo Services Conference Resolutions Manual

5.2.16 the three “Optional Shipping Information” boxes
may be shaded and without title. Insertion of these boxes
is mandatory;
5.2.17 nothing additional may be printed and/or overprinted on the airline air waybill.

6. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACE OF
THE NEUTRAL AIR WAYBILL
6.1 In addition to the information as illustrated in
Appendices ‘B’ – ‘E’:
6.1.1 in the Shipper’s Certification box, the part of the
statement referring to the Dangerous Goods Regulations
from the word “insofar …” shall be printed in bold type;
6.1.2 the printer’s reference shall be printed in the lower
left corner of all copies of the neutral air waybill in the following sequence:
6.1.2.1 printer’s name,
6.1.2.2 production reference number,
6.1.2.3 production date;
6.1.3 the content of the following neutral air waybill boxes
may be printed:
6.1.3.1 issuing carrier’s agent, name and city box with the
issuing carrier’s agent’s name and city,
6.1.3.2 agent’s IATA code box with the agent’s IATA code
number,
6.1.3.3 signature of shipper or his agent box with the
agent’s name.
6.2 Nothing additional may be printed and/or overprinted
on the neutral air waybill.

7. DESCRIPTION OF THE REVERSE
SIDE OF THE AIRLINE AND NEUTRAL
AIR WAYBILL
J 7.1 The currently effective IATA Conditions of Contract
shall be printed on three original copies of airline and neutral
air waybills as a minimum requirement. They may also be
printed on other copies of the air waybill.
7.1 The currently effective IATA Conditions of Contract
shall be printed on a minimum of the three original copies
of the airline and neutral air waybill.
7.2 Domestic Conditions of Contract, separate from the
currently effective IATA Conditions of Contract, may additionally be printed on the airline air waybill at carrier’s option.

26

